Image Guidelines (#1199)
shopware/docs: resources/guidelines/documentation-guidelines/05-methodize-assets.md

Use the following standards:

| Image attributes | Specification | Notes|
|------------------|---------------|---------|
| File type| Only .png, .svg and .gif| Use a lossless image format for screenshots (i.e., PNG) and vector format (i.e., SVG) for drawings (diagram, chart, logos, ...).|
|File size | max. 10 MB | |
|File name | Only use letters and hyphens `<related-filename>-<related-filename>-<meaningful-image-name>.md.` | Use the naming convention documented below in naming conventions for images.|
|Image size | Width: max 768px, Height: max 576px | This is automatically taken care by the inbuilt functions in our docs.|
|Copyright| - |Determine if an image or diagram is protected by copyright. If it is, you must obtain permission and acknowledge credit.|
|Personal identifiable information (PII) | - | Make sure to mask, modify, or remove any PII such as passwords, logins, account details, or other information that could compromise security.|

> |Alt tags| `![Alt](/path/to/img.jpg “image title”)` | Make sure to include alt text for every image. The text is used in situations where the image isn’t visible and image SEOs.|

Author: ```suggestion
|Alt tags| `![Alt](/path/to/img.jpg “image title”)` | Make sure to include alt text for every image. The text is used in situations where the image isn’t visible and for image SEOs.|
```

> | Image attributes | Specification | Notes|
> |------------------|---------------|---------|
> | File type| Only .png, .svg and .gif| Use a lossless image format for screenshots (i.e., PNG) and vector format (i.e., SVG) for drawings (diagram, chart, logos, ...).|
> |File size | max. 10 MB | |
> |File name | Only use letters and hyphens `<related-filename>-<related-filename>-<meaningful-image-name>.md.` | Use the naming convention documented below in naming conventions for images.|
> |Image size | Width: max 768px, Height: max 576px | This is automatically taken care by the inbuilt functions in our docs.|
> |Copyright| - |Determine if an image or diagram is protected by copyright. If it is, you must obtain permission and acknowledge credit.|
> |Personal identifiable information (PII) | - | Make sure to mask, modify, or remove any PII such as passwords, logins, account details, or other information that could compromise security.|
> |Alt tags| `![Alt](/path/to/img.jpg “image title”)` | Make sure to include alt text for every image. The text is used in situations where the image isn’t visible and for image SEOs.|
> |Borders|-|No borders are added to the images|

Author: ```suggestion
| Image attributes | Specification | Notes|
|------------------|---------------|---------|
| File type| Only .png, .svg and .gif| Use a lossless image format for screenshots (i.e., PNG) and vector format (i.e., SVG) for drawings (diagram, chart, logos, ...).|
|File size | max. 5 MB | It is best to upload high-quality images. |
|File name | Only use letters and hyphens `<topic_name>-<sub_topic_name>-<meaningful_image_name>.md.` | Use the naming convention documented below in naming conventions for images.|
|Image size | Width: max 768px, Height: max 576px | This is automatically taken care by the inbuilt functions in our docs.|
|Aspect ratio | 4:3 | This is automatically taken care by the inbuilt functions in our docs. |
|Copyright| - |Determine if an image or diagram is protected by copyright. If it is, you must obtain permission and acknowledge credit.|
|Personal identifiable information (PII) | - | Make sure to mask, modify, or remove any PII such as passwords, logins, account details, or other information that could compromise security.|
|Alt tags| `![Alt](/path/to/img.jpg “image title”)` | Make sure to include alt text for every image. The text is used in situations where the image isn’t visible and image SEOs.|
|Borders|-|No borders are added to the images|
```

What needs to be considered for visual diagrams:

* If you add images to illustrate items in a list (typically, steps in a procedure), align these images accordingly:
    * If there is only one image that illustrates the entire procedure, place the image at the end of the procedure or align it with the lead-in paragraph.
    * If you need to provide an image for each step in the procedure, place each image at the end of each step it follows.

> * Use the below naming convention for the images:

Author: ```suggestion
* When images is to be embedded in files/nested files, then use the below naming convention for the images:
```

# Methodize Assets

Maintaining a well-organized repository for all documentation assets, including images, videos, and files, is crucial. This section provides an overview of how assets are represented, managed, and the naming conventions that are adhered to.

::: info
For the creation of a visual representation, either contact the Shopware design team directly or submit a request through the [Issues](https://github.com/shopware/docs/issues) section.
:::

## Visual diagram guidelines

> In our documentation, we categorize visuals into different types, including screenshots, diagrams (such as UML and flowcharts), and GIFs. Each of these visual elements shares common quality standards. This section outlines the specific requirements that must be met by all visuals used in technical documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our documentation categorizes visuals into different types, including screenshots, diagrams (such as UML and flowcharts), and GIFs. Each of these visual elements shares common quality standards. This section outlines the specific requirements that must be met by all visuals used in technical documentation.
```

        storefront-dataHandling-pages_01.svg
    ```

* An introductory sentence should precede most images.

* Store all the media in the [assets directory]( https://github.com/shopware/docs/tree/main/assets). Once it is loaded, copy the reference to the Markdown file. Test images in a local build.

> ## Images and diagrams

Author: ```suggestion
## Diagrams
```

Consider using images or diagrams when you need to:

> * Show configurations and settings, such as the architecture

Author: ```suggestion
* Show architecture
```

> * Show architecture
> * Define a complex workflow
> * For UML diagrams, use [Mermaid](https://mermaid.live/) to create one and add the diagram code in codeblock.
> * Limit the contents of an image to the relevant portion. Do not include distracting or unnecessary content and whitespace.

Author: ```suggestion
* Show architecture
* Show complex relationships
* Define a complex workflow
* For UML diagrams, use [Mermaid](https://mermaid.live/) to create one and add the diagram code in codeblock.
```

> ## Screenshot

Author: ```suggestion
## Screenshots
```

Consider using screenshots when you want to:

> * Provide an example of a visualization
> * Show panels populated with query and settings
> * Show configurations and settings
> * Emphasize a new feature

Author: ```suggestion
* Provide an example of a visualization
* Show panels populated with query and settings
* Show configurations and settings
* Emphasize a new feature
* Limit the contents of an image to the relevant portion. Do not include distracting or unnecessary content and whitespace.
```

        storefront-dataHandling-pages_01.svg
    ```

* An introductory sentence should precede most images.

* Store all the media in the [assets directory]( https://github.com/shopware/docs/tree/main/assets). Once it is loaded, copy the reference to the Markdown file. Test images in a local build.

## Diagrams

Consider using diagrams when you need to:

* Show architecture
* Show complex relationships
* Define a complex workflow

> * For UML diagrams, use [Mermaid](https://mermaid.live/) to create one and add the diagram code in codeblock.

Reviewer: Maybe we add a little example here?

Reviewer: Do we want to only use it on UML? Gantt is also great for timelines etc.

![image](https://github.com/shopware/docs/assets/8600299/6c2196d7-232f-4534-a648-496793399ddf)

Author: @Isengo1989 , but we dont commonly come across scenarios that make use of Gnatt charts. However, let me elaborate this text better
